---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: true
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-02-19T04:58:48.335Z'
dateModified: '2016-02-19T04:57:58.663Z'
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
title: ''
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-02-19-722d7e4a-0e7a-4b52-a514-af8f8731e741.md
published: true
url: 722d7e4a-0e7a-4b52-a514-af8f8731e741/index.html
_type: Article

---
Juli Hinds

Ph.D., Mass Communications, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 2013

Masters, Life Sciences Communication, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 2006
Women's Studies Certificate, 1986

Bachelor of Arts, Communication Arts, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 1985

Study Abroad

UW-Paris Film Exchange, 2005

Ealing College, Film Studies, England, 1986

Dissertation

"Projecting Nature: Eco-Criticism and the Post World War II Western." This research ex-
plores the relationship between human beings, landscape and film in the evolution of post-
World War II American environmental thought.

Advisor: Patty Loew, Ph.D., Department of Life Sciences Communication (LSC), Univer-
sity of Wisconsin-Madison.

Dissertation Committee: Drs. Loew, Julie D'Acci (Gender Studies), Kelley Conway
(Communication Arts), Jack Mitchell (School of Journalism), Bret Shaw (Life Sciences
Communication), Larry Meiller (LSC).

Teaching Interests

Sound Studies

Media and Culture

Social Impact of Mass Media
Radio/Television Studies

Digital Humanities and Identity
Film History, Criticism, and Theory
Performance/Audience Studies

Academic Appointments

Senior Lecturer, Edgewood College, 2014 (June)-present

Senior Adjunct Professor, Edgewood College, 2008-2014 (June)

Courses taught:

* New Digital Platforms and Society
* Film History, Theory and Criticism
* Rhetoric and Digital Discourse

* Social Justice Issues and American Cinema: Stories of Labor, Gender and Race
* (created course, uses flipped classroom model)
* Podcasting and Social Justice
* Media, Culture and Democracy (flipped classroom)
Lecturer, Madison College, Spring 2014
Courses taught:

* Survey of Mass Communications (cultural studies focus)
* Gender and Mass Media
Instructor, Life Sciences Communication UW-Madison, 2003-2009
Courses taught:

* Performance, Public Speaking
* Informational Radio Writing and Production
* Consumer Marketing and Public Relations (On-line)
Lecturer, PEOPLE Program (Radio and Science Communication) UW-Madison Summer
2009 & 2010\. Program for marginalized high school students
Courses taught:

* Public Relations
* Communication Management
Instructor, Mini Courses Collegiate Summer School 2007 & 2008
Courses created and taught

* Media and Economics
* Consumer Marketing and Public Relations
Instructor, Madison School of Broadcasting, 2003
Courses taught

* Radio
* Public Relations
* The Hollywood Musical, Sound Studies
Communication Management

* VoiceBox Productions, Owner-voice work and advertising, 2008-Today
* Media Literacy Foundation, Edgewood College (Creater/Lead) 2014
* Communication Coordinator Lifeline U.S.A. 2000-2009
* Project Assistant, Life Sciences Communication UW-Madison, 2008
Duties. Development of radio certificate program, other Project research support, or-
ganization and planning for the department

Awards & Grants

Culture History and Environmental (CHE) Research Grant, Spring 2012, to conduct disserta-
tion research in Los Angeles, CA.

International Communication Award (ICA) teaching award

Jean Fewster Communications Scholarship

Travel Grant, Midwest Association for Public Opinion Research, conference paper presenta-
tion, 2007\.

Special Scholars Scholarship, UW-Madison, 2005\.

Travel Grant, Midwest Association for Public Opinion Research, 2005\.

Special Scholars Scholarship, UW-Madison, 2004\.

Scheduled Conference Presentations

Bell Hooks and Transgressive Pedagogy through 

Orange is the New Black

, 

UW-Madison
World Summit, Women, Gender and Well Being, April 14-16, 2016

Sound Studies, Where are Women's Voices? UW-Madison World Summit, Women, Gender
and Well Being, April 14-16, 2016

Conference Presentations

"Media Literacy, Critical thought and the Diverse Classroom" Edgewood College Sympo-
sium on Universal Learning, Jan. 2015 \*Keynote Speaker

"Media Literacy, Sound Studies and Environmental Thought" 

Culture, History and Envi-
ronmentalism Symposium

, University of Wisconsin- Madison, Feb. 2014

"Hearing Nature: Eco-Criticism in the film 

Witness.

" School of Journalism, University of
Wisconsin- Madison. March, 2014\.

"Projecting Nature: The Hollywood Western in Post World War II America, an Eco-critical
Review." 

Culture, History and Environmentalism Symposium

, University of Wisconsin-
Madison, 2012

"Through an Environmental Lens: The Hollywood Western, Not Just a Landscape." 

CHE
Symposium

, Edgewood College, Nov. 2010\.

"

Such a Calamity

, Gender in the Hollywood Western." School of Journalism, University of
Wisconsin- Madison. March, 2010\.

"Eco-heroines, from 

Erin Brokovich 

to 

North Country

, Landscape and the Hick."

Culture, History and Environmentalism Symposium

, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 2009\.

"Third-person Effect and Political Attribution," 

Midwest Association for Public Opinion Re-
search Conference, 

Chicago, 2007\.

"Do Media Promote Learned Helplessness in the Obese?" 

Midwest Association for Public
Opinion Research Conference, 

Chicago, 2005\.

Works to be Published

"

Such a Calamity

, Troubling Gender in the Hollywood Western." 

The UW-Press Gender
Studies Program

"Return to the Garden, Eco-Criticism and the Film Western during the Early Post-World War
II Era

." T

he 

Journal of Ecocriticism, a new Journal of Nature, Society and Literature.

Work in Progress

"Driving the Machine in the Garden, an Eco-Critical Review of the Early Post-WWII Ameri-
ca." Under review with the 

Journal of Ecocriticism, a new Journal of Nature, Society and
Literature.

"Hollywood, Film Director Douglas Sirk and the Environmental Imagination.

" 

Under review
with the 

Journal of Ecocriticism, a new Journal of Nature, Society and Literature.

"Aldo Leopold Through an Eco-Critical lens: Gender, Race and the Great White Divide."
Under review with 

The ORWAC Journal, Women's Studies in Communication (WSIC)

Professional communications employment

Freelance writer, LifeZette, 2014-present

The VoiceBox

-Owner, voice work, production and social media consulting, 2013-present
On-air/Production, WMGN FM (radio)- Madison, WI 1994-present

Organizational communications consultant, Lifeline USA, Madison, WI 1995-present
Public relations, WMGN FM, Madison, WI, 1990-present

Reporter, WISC-TV (CBS), Madison, WI 1996-1999

Freelance writer, 

Anew 

magazine, Madison, WI 1996-1998

Reporter, WMTV-TV (NBC), Madison, WI 1994-1996

Talent/Host TNN-TV (TNN), Nashville, TN 1993-1994

Announcer/talent WJMK FM (radio) Chicago, 1990-1993

Reporter/Producer, Warner Bros. Studio, Los Angeles, CA 1993-1995
On-air/Production, WOKY AM (radio), Milwaukee, WI 1992

On-air/Production, WMGN-FM (radio), Madison, WI 1985-1992

Professional Groups

Society of Film and Media Studies

Culture, History and Environmentalism, Graduate research group (CHE), Nelson Institute

PRSA

ICA International Communication Association
Midwest American Broadcasters

Dirt

, Nelson Institute Society, UW-Madison
Women in Communications

Community Service

Lussier Community Radio Station

Project Girl, Edgewood College, Madison, WI.

Advisor, Communication Club, (PR and Media Literacy) Edgewood College, Madison, WI.
Director, Media & Science Literacy, Shorewood Elementary Outreach, Madison, WI.
Speaker's Bureau, Rape Crisis Center, Madison, WI.

Advocate, Madison Aids Network Outreach, Madison, WI.

Speaker and advocate, YWCA, Madison, WI.

Technical Skills

Multiple Social Media platforms, plus Final Cut Pro, Adobe Premier Pro, Audacity, Sound-
forge, Cool-edit, GarageBand